Week1
Write a program to convert strings to an integer and float and display its type.
Ramesh’s basic salary is input through the keyboard. His dearness allowance is 40% of his basic salary, and his house rent allowance is 20% of his basic salary. Write a program to calculate his gross salary.
Write a simple python program to find the square root of a given floating point number. The output should be displayed with 3 decimal places.
Alfred buys an old scooter for Rs. X and spends Rs. Y on its repairs. If he sells the scooter for Rs. Z (Z>X+Y). Write a program to help Alfred to find his gain percent. Get all the above-mentioned values through the keyboard and find the gain percent.
 In many jurisdictions, a small deposit is added to drink containers to encourage people to recycle them. In one particular jurisdiction, drink containers holding one liter or less have a $0.10 deposit and drink containers holding more than one liter have a $0.25 deposit. Write a program that reads the number of containers of each size(less and more)  from the user. Your program should continue by computing and displaying the refund that will be received for returning those containers. Format the output so that it includes a dollar sign and always displays exactly two decimal places.
Justin is a carpenter who works on an hourly basis. He works in a company where he is paid Rs 50 for an hour on weekdays and Rs 80 for an hour on weekends. He works 10 hrs more on weekdays than weekends. If the salary paid for him is given, write a program to find the number of hours he has worked on weekdays and weekends.
:::
Week2
In the 1800s, the battle of Troy was led by Hercules. He was a superstitious person. He believed that his crew can win the battle only if the total count of the weapons in hand is in multiple of 3 and the soldiers are in an even number of count. Given the total number of weapons and the soldier's count, Find whether the battle can be won or not according to Hercules's belief. If the battle can be won print True otherwise print False.
In London, every year during Dasara there will be a very grand doll show. People try to invent new dolls of different varieties. The best-sold doll's creator will be awarded with a cash prize. So people broke their heads to create dolls innovatively. Knowing this competition, Mr.Lokpaul tried to create a doll that sings only when an even number is pressed and the number should not be zero and greater than 100.
Mr.Ram has been given a problem kindly help him to solve it. The input of the program is either 0 or 1. IF 0 is the input he should display "C" if 1 is the input it should display "D".There is a constraint that Mr. Ram should use either logical operators or arithmetic operators to solve the problem, not anything else.
Mr. X's birthday is in next month. This time he is planning to invite N of his friends. He wants to distribute some chocolates to all of his friends after the party. He went to a shop to buy a packet of chocolates. At the chocolate shop, 4 packets are there with different numbers of chocolates. He wants to buy such a packet which contains a number of chocolates, which can be distributed equally among all of his friends. Help Mr. X to buy such a packet.
Write a program that returns the last digit of the given number. Last digit is being referred to the least significant digit i.e. the digit in the ones (units) place in the given number.
An online retailer sells two products: widgets and gizmos. Each widget weighs 75 grams. Each gizmo weighs 112 grams. Write a program that reads the number of widgets and the number of gizmos from the user. Then your program should compute and display the total weight of the parts.
A team from the Rotract club had planned to conduct a rally to create awareness among the Coimbatore people to donate blood. They conducted the rally successfully. Many of the Coimbatore people realized it and came forward to donate their blood to nearby blood banks. The eligibility criteria for donating blood are people should be above or equal to 18 and his/ her weight should be above 40. There was a huge crowd and staff in the blood bank found it difficult to manage the crowd. So they decided to keep a system and ask the people to enter their age and weight in the system. If a person is eligible he/she will be allowed inside.
Write a python program that takes a integer between 0 and 15 as input and displays the number of '1' s in its binary form.
Pretend that you have just opened a new savings account that earns 4 percent interest per year. The interest that you earn is paid at the end of the year, and is added to the balance of the savings account. Write a program that begins by reading the amount of money deposited into the account from the user. Then your program should compute and display the amount in the savings account after 1, 2, and 3 years. Display each amount so that it is rounded to 2 decimal places. Sample Input: 10000 Sample Output: Balance as of end of Year 1: $10400.00. Balance as of end of Year 2: $10816.00. Balance as of end of Year 3: $11248.64.
The program that you create for this exercise will begin by reading the cost of a meal ordered at a restaurant from the user. Then your program will compute the tax and tip for the meal. Use your local tax rate (5 percent) when computing the amount of tax owing. Compute the tip as 18 percent of the meal amount (without the tax). The output from your program should include the tax amount, the tip amount, and the grand total for the meal including both the tax and the tip. Format the output so that all of the values are displayed using two decimal places.
:::
Week3
A triangle can be classified based on the lengths of its sides as equilateral, isosceles or scalene. All three sides of an equilateral triangle have the same length. An isosceles triangle has two sides that are the same length, and a third side that is a different length. If all of the sides have different lengths then the triangle is scalene.
Write a program that returns the second last digit of the given number. Second last digit is being referred 10the digit in the tens place in the given number.
Most years have 365 days. However, the time required for the Earth to orbit the Sun is actually slightly more than that. As a result, an extra day, February 29, is included in some years to correct for this difference. Such years are referred to as leap years. The rules for determining whether or not a year is a leap year follow:
Write a program to calculate and print the Electricity bill where the unit consumed by the user is given from test case. It prints the total amount the customer has to pay. The charge are as follows: 
Ms. Sita, the faculty handling programming lab for you is very strict. Your seniors have told you that she will not allow you to enter the week's lab if you have not completed atleast half the number of problems given last week. Many of you didn't understand this statement and so they requested the good programmers from your batch to write a program to find whether a student will be allowed into a week's lab given the number of problems given last week and the number of problems solved by the student in that week.
In this exercise you will create a program that reads a letter of the alphabet from the user. If the user enters a, e, i, o or u then your program should display a message indicating that the entered letter is a vowel. If the user enters y then your program should display a message indicating that sometimes y is a vowel, and sometimes y is a consonant. Otherwise your program should display a message indicating that the letter is a consonant.
Write a program to find the eligibility of admission for a professional course based on the following criteria:
Three numbers form a Pythagorean triple if the sum of squares of two numbers is equal to the square of the third.
The length of a month varies from 28 to 31 days. In this exercise you will create a program that reads the name of a month from the user as a string. Then your program should display the number of days in that month. Display “28 or 29 days” for February so that leap years are addressed.
The Chinese zodiac assigns animals to years in a 12 year cycle. One 12 year cycle is shown in the table below. The pattern repeats from there, with 2012 being another year of the dragon, and 1999 being another year of the hare.
:::
Week4
:::
Week5
Consider the below words as key words and check the given input is key word or not.
Write a python to read a sentence and print its longest word and its length
Given a string S which is of the format USERNAME@DOMAIN.EXTENSION, the program must print the EXTENSION, DOMAIN, USERNAME in the reverse order.
Given two Strings s1 and s2, remove all the characters from s1 which is present in s2.
String should contain only the words are not palindrome.
Robert  is having 2 strings consist of uppercase & lowercase english letters. Now he want to compare those two strings lexicographically. The letters' case does not matter, that is an uppercase letter is considered equivalent to the corresponding lowercase letter.
Given a string S, which contains several words, print the count C of the words whose length is atleast L. (You can include punctuation marks like comma, full stop also as part of the word length. Space alone must be ignored)
Write a program to check if two strings are balanced. For example, strings s1 and s2 are balanced if all the characters in the s1 are present in s2. The character’s position doesn’t matter. If balanced display as "true" ,otherwise "false".
In this exercise, you will create a program that reads words from the user until the user enters a blank line. After the user enters a blank line your program should display each word entered by the user exactly once. The words should be displayed in the same order that they were first entered. For example, if the user enters:
Reverse a string without affecting special characters
:::
Week6
Find the intersection of two sorted arrays.
Write a program to print all the locations at which a particular element (taken as input) is found in a list and also print the total number of times it occurs in the list. The location starts from 1.
Complete the program to count frequency of each element of an array. Frequency of a particular element will be printed once.
Given two lists A and B, and B is an anagram of A. B is an anagram of A means B is made by randomizing the order of the elements in A.
Write a Python program to Zip two given lists of lists.
Consider a program to insert an element / item in the sorted array. Complete the logic by filling up required code in editable section. Consider an array of size 10. The eleventh item is the data is to be inserted.
Determine the factors of a number (i.e., all positive integer values that evenly divide into a number) and then return the pth element of the list, sorted ascending. If there is no pth element, return 0.
Write a Python program to check if a given list is strictly increasing or not. Moreover, If removing only one element from the list results in a strictly increasing list, we still consider the list true
Given an array A of sorted integers and another non negative integer k, find if there exists 2 indices i and j such that A[i] - A[j] = k, i != j.
Given an array of numbers, find the index of the smallest array element (the pivot), for which the sums of all elements to the left and to the right are equal. The array may not be reordered.
:::
Week7
Given a tuple and a positive integer k, the task is to find the count of distinct pairs in the tuple whose sum is equal to K.
Coders here is a simple task for you, Given string str. Your task is to check whether it is a binary string or not by using python set.
The DNA sequence is composed of a series of nucleotides abbreviated as 'A', 'C', 'G', and 'T'.
Given an array of integers nums containing n + 1 integers where each integer is in the range [1, n] inclusive.There is only one repeated number in nums, return this repeated number. Solve the problem using set.
Given an array of strings words, return the words that can be typed using letters of the alphabet on only one row of American keyboard like the image below.
:::
Week8
Given an array of names of candidates in an election. A candidate name in the array represents a vote cast to the candidate. Print the name of candidates received Max vote. If there is tie, print a lexicographically smaller name.
In the game of Scrabble™, each letter has points associated with it. The total score of a word is the sum of the scores of its letters. More common letters are worth fewer points while less common letters are worth more points. The points associated with each letter are shown below:
Give a dictionary with value lists, sort the keys by summation of values in value list.
A sentence is a string of single-space separated words where each word consists only of lowercase letters.A word is uncommon if it appears exactly once in one of the sentences, and does not appear in the other sentence.
Create a student dictionary  for n students with the student name as key and their test mark assignment mark and lab mark as values. Do the following computations and display the result.
:::
Week9
An automorphic number is a number whose square ends with the number itself.
complete function to implement coin change making problem i.e. finding the minimum
An abundant number is a number for which the sum of its proper divisors is greater than
A number is considered to be ugly if its only prime factors are 2, 3 or 5.
Write a code to check whether product of digits at even places is divisible by sum of digits
:::
Week10
To find the frequency of numbers in a list and display in sorted order.
Write a Python program for binary search.
Given an listof integers, sort the array in ascending order using the Bubble Sort algorithm above. Once sorted, print the following three lines:
Bubble Sort is the simplest sorting algorithm that works by repeatedly swapping the adjacent elements if they are in wrong order. You read an list of numbers. You need to arrange the elements in ascending order and print the result. The sorting should be done using bubble sort.
Bubble Sort is the simplest sorting algorithm that works by repeatedly swapping the adjacent elements if they are in wrong order. You read an list of numbers. You need to arrange the elements in ascending order and print the result. The sorting should be done using bubble sort.
:::
Week11
Develop a Python program that safely calculates the square root of a number provided by the user. Handle exceptions for negative inputs and non-numeric inputs.
Write a Python script that asks the user to enter a number within a specified range (e.g., 1 to 100). Handle exceptions for invalid inputs and out-of-range numbers.
Write a Python program that performs division and modulo operations on two numbers provided by the user. Handle division by zero and non-numeric inputs.
Develop a Python program that safely performs division between two numbers provided by the user. Handle exceptions like division by zero and non-numeric inputs.
Write a Python program that asks the user for their age and prints a message based on the age. Ensure that the program handles cases where the input is not a valid integer.
:::
Week12
Given an integer n, print true if it is a power of two. Otherwise, print false.
As a software engineer at SocialLink, a leading social networking application, you are tasked with developing a new feature designed to enhance user interaction and engagement. The company aims to introduce a system where users can form connections based on shared interests and activities. One of the feature's components involves analyzing pairs of users based on the activities they've participated in, specifically looking at the numerical difference in the number of activities each user has participated in.
Raghu owns a shoe shop with a varying inventory of shoe sizes. The shop caters to multiple customers who have specific size requirements and are willing to pay a designated amount for their desired shoe size. Raghu needs an efficient system to manage his inventory and calculate the total revenue generated from sales based on customer demands.
Rose manages a personal library with a diverse collection of books. To streamline her library management, she needs a program that can categorize books based on their genres, making it easier to find and organize her collection.
Dr. John Wesley maintains a spreadsheet with student records for academic evaluation. The spreadsheet contains various data fields including student IDs, marks, class names, and student names. The goal is to develop a system that can calculate the average marks of all students listed in the spreadsheet.
:::